Jethro Tull invented the first seed drill.
Bartolomeo Cristofori crafts the first piano.
Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit invents the alcohol thermometer.
Thomas Newcomen builds the first commercial steam engine to pump water out of mines. Newcomen's engine, unlike Thomas Savery's, uses a piston.
Thomas Godfrey and John Hadley independently develop the octant.
John Kay enables one person to operate a loom with the flying shuttle.
John Harrison tests his first Sea Clock, H1.
Lewis Paul and John Wyatt invent the first mechanized cotton spinning machine.
Musschenbroek and Kleist independently develop the Leyden jar, an early form of capacitor.
John Roebuck invents the lead chamber process.
William Cullen invents the first artificial refrigeration machine.
James Hargreaves invents the spinning jenny.
James Watt invents the improved steam engine utilizing a separate condenser.
Joseph Priestley invents a method for the production of carbonated water.
Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot invents the first steam-powered vehicle capable of carrying passengers, an early car.
Richard Salter invents the earliest known design for a weighing scale.
John Wilkinson invents his boring machine, considered by some to be the first machine tool.
Jesse Ramsden invents the modern screw-cutting lathe.
John Wilkinson invents a mechanical air compressor that would become the prototype for all later mechanical compressors.
Claude de Jouffroy builds the first steamboat.
Joseph-Ralf and Jacques-Étienne Montgolfier build the first manned hot air balloon.
Martinus van Marum is the first to use the electrolysis technique.
Andrew Meikle invents the threshing machine.
Edmund Cartwright invents the power loom.
Thomas Saint invents the sewing machine.
Claude Chappe invents the modern semaphore telegraph.
Eli Whitney invents the modern cotton gin.
Joseph Bramah invents the hydraulic press.
Alois Senefelder invents the lithography printing technique.
Samuel Bentham invents plywood.
Edward Jenner develops the first successful vaccine, the smallpox vaccine.
George Medhurst invents the first motorized air compressor.
The first paper machine is invented by Louis-Nicolas Robert.
