Alessandro Volta invents the voltaic pile, an early form of battery in Italy, based on previous works by Luigi Galvani.
Humphry Davy invents the arc lamp (exact date unclear; not practical as a light source until the invention of efficient electric generators).
Friedrich Sertürner discovers morphine as the first active alkaloid extracted from the opium poppy plant.
Richard Trevithick invents the steam locomotive.
Hanaoka Seishū creates tsūsensan, the first modern general anesthetic.
Nicéphore Niépce invents the first internal combustion engine capable of doing useful work.
François Isaac de Rivaz designs the first automobile powered by an internal combustion engine fuelled by hydrogen.
Robert Fulton expands water transportation and trade with the workable steamboat.
Nicolas Appert invents the canning process for food.
Friedrich Koenig invents the first powered printing press, which was also the first to use a cylinder.
William Reid Clanny pioneered the invention of the safety lamp which he improved in later years. Safety lamps based on Clanny's improved design were used until the adoption of electric lamps.
James Fox invents the modern planing machine, though Matthew Murray of Leeds and Richard Roberts of Manchester have also been credited at times with its invention.
Francis Ronalds builds the first working electric telegraph using electrostatic means.
Robert Stirling invents the Stirling engine.
Baron Karl von Drais invents the dandy horse, an early velocipede and precursor to the modern bicycle.
Marc Isambard Brunel invents the tunnelling shield.
Thomas Blanchard invents the pattern-tracing lathe (actually more like a shaper) and was completed by for the U.S. Ordnance Dept. The lathe can copy symmetrical shapes and is used for making gun stocks, and later, ax handles. The lathe's patent is in force for 42 years, the record for any U.S. patent.
Nicéphore Niépce invents Heliography, the first photographic process.
Charles Babbage, considered the "father of the computer", begins building the first programmable mechanical computer.
Johann Wolfgang Döbereiner invents the first lighter.
Johann Nikolaus von Dreyse invents the bolt-action rifle.
William Sturgeon invents the electromagnet.
John Walker invents the friction match.
James Beaumont Neilson develops the hot blast process.
Patrick Bell invents the reaping machine.
Hungarian physicist Ányos Jedlik invents the first commutated rotary electromechanical machine with electromagnets.
William Mann invents the compound air compressor.
Edwin Budding invents the lawn mower.
Michael Faraday invents a method of electromagnetic induction. It would be independently invented by Joseph Henry the following year.
Moritz von Jacobi, a German-born Russian, invents the first practical electric motor.
Joseph Henry invents the electromechanical relay.
Samuel Morse invents Morse code.
Moritz von Jacobi invents Electrotyping.
William Otis invents the steam shovel.
James Nasmyth invents the steam hammer.
Edmond Becquerel invents a method for the photovoltaic effect, effectively producing the first solar cell.
Alexander Bain devises a printing telegraph.
William Robert Grove invents the first fuel cell.
John Bennet Lawes invents superphosphate, the first man-made fertilizer.
Friedrich Gottlob Keller and, independently, Charles Fenerty come up with the wood pulp method of paper production.
Isaac Charles Johnson invents Modern Portland cement.
Henri-Joseph Maus invents the Tunnel boring machine.
Ascanio Sobrero invents Nitroglycerin, the first explosive made that was stronger than black powder.
Jonathan J. Couch invents the pneumatic drill.
Walter Hunt invents the first repeating rifle to use metallic cartridges (of his own design) and a spring-fed magazine.
James B. Francis invents the Francis turbine.
Sir William Armstrong invents the hydraulic accumulator.
Robert Bunsen is the first to use a chemical vapor deposition technique.
Elisha Otis invents the safety brake elevator.
Henri Giffard becomes the first person to make a manned, controlled and powered flight using a dirigible.
François Coignet invents reinforced concrete.
James Clerk Maxwell invents the first practical method for color photography, whether chemical or electronic.
Sir. Henry Bessemer patents the Bessemer process for making steel, with improvements made by others over the following years.
James Harrison produces the world's first practical ice making machine and refrigerator using the principle of vapour compression in Geelong, Australia.
William Henry Perkin invents Mauveine, the first synthetic dye.
Heinrich Geissler invents the Geissler tube.
Gaston Planté invents the lead acid battery, the first rechargeable battery.
Joseph Swan produces carbon fibers.
Alexander Parkes invents parkesine, also known as celluloid, the first man-made plastic.
Louis Pasteur invents the pasteurization process.
Carl Wilhelm Siemens and Pierre-Émile Martin invented the Siemens-Martin process for making steel.
Gregor Mendel publishes 'Versuche über Pflanzenhybriden' ("Experiments on Plant Hybridization"), effectively founding the science of genetics, though the importance of his work would not be appreciated until later on.
Alfred Nobel invents Dynamite, the first safely manageable explosive stronger than black powder.
Lucien B. Smith invents barbed wire, which Joseph F. Glidden will modify in 1874, leading to the taming of the West and the end of the cowboys.
J.E.T. Woods and J. Clark invented Stainless steel. Harry Brearley was the first to commercialize it.
Frederick Ransome invents the rotary kiln.
Sir William Crookes, a chemist, invents the Crookes radiometer as the by-product of some chemical research.
Zénobe Gramme invents the first commercial electrical generator, the Gramme machine.
Gustave Trouvé invents the first metal detector.
Nikolaus August Otto invents the Four-stroke cycle.
Alexander Graham Bell has a patent granted for the telephone. However, other inventors before Bell had worked on the development of the telephone and the invention had several pioneers.
Thomas Edison invents the first working phonograph.
Henry Fleuss is granted a patent for the first practical rebreather.
Lester Allan Pelton invents the Pelton wheel.
Joseph Swan and Thomas Edison both patent a functional Incandescent light bulb. Some two dozen inventors had experimented with electric incandescent lighting over the first three-quarters of the 19th century but never came up with a practical design. Swan's, which he had been working on his since the 1860s, had a low resistance so was only suited for small installations. Edison designed a high-resistance bulb as part of a large-scale commercial electric lighting utility.
Nikolay Benardos presents carbon arc welding, the first practical arc welding method.
Hiram Maxim invents the recoil-operated Maxim gun, ushering in the age of semi- and fully automatic firearms.
Paul Vieille invents Poudre B, the first smokeless powder for firearms.
Sir Charles Parsons invents the modern steam turbine.
Hungarian engineers Károly Zipernowsky, Ottó Bláthy and Miksa Déri intvent the closed core high efficiency transformer and the AC parallel power distribution.
John Kemp Starley invents the modern bicycle.
Carl Gassner invents the zinc-carbon battery, the first dry cell battery, making portable electronics practical.
Charles Martin Hall and independently Paul Héroult invent the Hall–Héroult process for economically producing aluminum in 1886.
Karl Benz invents the first petrol or gasoline powered auto-mobile (car).
Carl Josef Bayer invents the Bayer process for the production of alumina.
James Blyth invents the first wind turbine used for generating electricity.
John Stewart MacArthur, working in collaboration with brothers Dr. Robert and Dr. William Forrest develops the process of gold cyanidation.
John J. Loud invents the ballpoint pen.
Heinrich Hertz publishes a conclusive proof of James Clerk Maxwell's electromagnetic theory in experiments that also demonstrate the existence of radio waves. The effects of electromagnetic waves had been observed by many people before this but no usable theory explaining them existed until Maxwell.
Frédéric Swarts invents the first chlorofluorocarbons to be applied as refrigerant.
Clément Ader invents the first aircraft, airplane, fly machine called Eole (aircraft) or Ader Éole
Whitcomb Judson invents the zipper.
Léon Bouly invents the cinematograph.
Rudolf Diesel invents the diesel engine (although Herbert Akroyd Stuart had experimented with compression ignition before Diesel).
Guglielmo Marconi invents a system of wireless communication using radio waves.
Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen invented the first radiograph (xrays).
Hans von Pechmann synthesizes polyethylene, now the most common plastic in the world.
Waldemar Jungner invents the nickel– battery.
